1
by running one process, 
then stopping it and running another,
OS can promote the illusion that many virtual 
CPUs exist when there is only 1 physical CPU (or a few)


2
context switch 上下文切换
process of storing the state of a process or thread,
so that it can be restored and resume execution later

to understand process, have to understand machine state

MACHINE STATE: 
1. what a program can read or update when it is running
2.  memory, (instructions lie in memory), memory that
the process can address (address space 定址空间)
3. read or update registers


3
process API
create: 调用操作系统来创建新进程
destroy: when processes do not exit by themselves when
complete, this interface destroy processes forcefully
wait: wait for a process to stop running
miscellaneous control 其他控制: 例如种方法来
暂停进程(停止运行一段时间), 然后恢复(继续运行)


4, 5
how programs transformed into processes?

a. load 加载 its code & static data (initialized variables) into memory,
into the address space of the process
将代码和所有静态数据加载到内存中
programs initially reside on disk 磁盘 or some 
flash-based solid state drives (基于闪存的固态硬盘)

b. memory allocated for program's run-time stack 运行时栈
(for local var, funct para, ret addr)

c. memory allocated for heap 堆
dynamically-allocated data, request by malloc, free() 来释放

d. other initialization tasks related to I/O
each process has 3 open file descriptors 文件描述符,
for standard input, output, and error

e. jump to main(), OS transfers control of CPU to 
newly-created process 


6
process states 进程状态
1. 运行 running, executing instructions 
2. 就绪 ready, process ready to run but OS chosen not to
3. 阻塞 blocked, not ready to run until other event takes place
(ex: when a process initiates I/O request to a disk
. the process becomes blocked so other process 
can use the processor)

being moved from ready to running means
the process has been SCHEDULED 被调度
being moved from running to ready means
the process has been DESCHEDULED 被取消调度


7
track state of each process,
OS keep process list 进程列表

register context 寄存器上下文 will hold 


9
Trap Frames are used to store the registers
of the current thread when an interrupt occurs

process control block 进程控制块：
structure that stores info about a process

When finished, the parent will make 
one final call (e.g., wait()) to wait for the
completion of the child


10
process can be described by its state:
contents of memory in its address space
contents of CPU registers 